Latest version: https://www.myweb.ttu.edu/vuphan/

This version: 2016/11/27

Vu Hoang Nguyen Phan (Computer Science)

############################################################

# STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

To the Ph.D. Admissions Committee:

Thank you for considering my application. My name is Vu
Phan. I will graduate in 2017/Spring from Texas Tech
University with a dual B.S. degree in Computer Science
and Math. My career goal is to become a professor or a
research lab scientist. I am interested in: (1)
Programming Languages, (2) Artificial Intelligence,
and (3) Complexity Theory. Below are descriptions of
my projects, in (mostly) chronological order.

------------------------------------------------------------

(0) Real Analysis

My first research paper is actually in traditional Math.
In 2013/Spring, I started writing this Real Analysis
paper. My advisor was Dr. Alan Graves (Math
Department, Collin College). I generalized a classic
theorem on inequalities involving quasi-arithmetic
means by Hardy, Littlewood, and Polya. In 2013/Fall, I
presented my paper at the Ninth Texas Undergraduate
Math Conference. Then I submitted the paper to
Rose-Hulman Undergraduate Math Journal. In
2014/Spring, the journal replied, requesting a
revision. So I revised and resubmitted in 2014/Summer.
In 2015/Spring, the journal requested another
revision. As of now, I am still revising my paper for
a second resubmission.

(1) Programming Languages

In 2015/Summer, I started my first project in
Programming Languages under the supervision of Dr.
Nelson Rushton (Computer Science Department, Texas
Tech University). This project was part of a NASA
research contract with Kestrel Technology, Honeywell
International, and us. Dr. Nelson Rushton designed the
logic programming language L to encode NASA
safety-critical procedures. I implemented L by
automating its translation into Answer Set Prolog
(another logic programming language whose solver was
already built). In 2016/Spring, the project was
completed. The NASA Disclosure of Invention and New
Technology titled "CertWare Safety Case Workbench
Software" recognized six innovators: Dr. Nelson
Rushton, three other doctorate holders, a Ph.D.
student, and me.

In 2016/Spring, my second project in Programming
Languages with Dr. Nelson Rushton was started. He
designed the Language of Effective Definitions for
literate programming (inspired by the WEB system of
Dr. Donald Knuth). I implemented the executing aspect
of LED by automating its translation into the
functional programming language SequenceL. To
implement the formatting aspect, I am developing an
LED-to-TeX translator.

In 2016/Fall, I started another project in Programming
Languages, this time with Dr. Razvan Gelca (Math
Department, Texas Tech University). This project is
inspired by our knot theory research back in
2015/Spring, when we studied the noncommutative
A-ideal of the three-twist knot by manually doing
skein computations. I want to automate these
computations by developing a computer algebra system.
So I designed the procedural programming language
Knotty. Then I implemented Knotty using SymPy (a
Python library) for symbolic computation and TeX
printing. I am now implementing additional
knot-theoretic operations as Knotty built-in functions.

(2) Artificial Intelligence

In 2016/Summer, I started writing an Artificial
Intelligence research paper under the guidance of Dr.
Michael Gelfond (Computer Science Department, Texas
Tech University). We investigate Consistency Restoring
Prolog, which is a superset of the logic programming
language Answer Set Prolog (whose stable model
semantics was defined by Dr. Michael Gelfond and Dr.
Vladimir Lifschitz). In detail, a CR-Prolog program is
said to have antichain property if none of its answer
set is a proper subset of another. The problem is to
find syntactic conditions which guarantee this
semantically desirable property. We discovered such a
sufficient condition which is reasonably weak: the
program's dependency graph being acyclic and having no
directed path from one cr-rule-head-vertex to another.
I am revising the paper before submitting for
publication.

(3) Complexity Theory

In 2017/Spring, I am investigating a Complexity Theory
problem with Dr. Chris Monico (Math Department, Texas
Tech University). Back in 2012/Spring, Dr. Chris
Monico conjectured that inverting Conway's Game of
Life is computationally hard. If we can prove the
conjecture, then we can apply this inverse problem to
define a good cryptographic trapdoor function.

------------------------------------------------------------

I appreciate your consideration.

Regards,<br>Vu Phan
